docs: add entries for user-defined functions and aggregates (#11560)
scylladb/scylladb: docs/cql/functions.rst

- The :ref:`aggregate functions <aggregate-functions>`, which are used to aggregate multiple rows of results from a
  ``SELECT`` statement.

In both cases, CQL provides a number of native "hard-coded" functions as well as the ability to create new user-defined
functions.

.. note:: Although user-defined functions are sandboxed, protecting the system from a "rogue" function, user-defined functions are disabled by default for extra security.
. See the ``enable_user_defined_functions``
   in ``scylla.yaml`` to enable them.

>    Additionally, user-defined functions are still experimental, and need to be explicitly enabled by adding ``udfs`` to the list of

Reviewer: I think the experimental feature name is `udf`, not `udfs`. Unless `udfs` also works, somehow? Can you please check?

Reviewer 2: I'll change do `udf`.

   ``experimental_features`` configuration option in ``scylla.yaml``, or turning on the ``experimental`` flag in order

>    to enable all experimental features, UDFs included. Use in test environment only!

Reviewer: I think perhaps the phrase "Use in test environment only!" is a bit scary. I think we should have a single page explaining in detail the Scylla concept of "experimental" (that it's not tested as well, backward compatibility is not guaranteed in new versions, and upgrades are not guaranteed) - and then all places describing experimental features can link to such a page. But we don't need to do that now (or, maybe we already have such a page?) CC @tzach @annastuchlik

Reviewer 3: Agree. "experimental" is scary enough.

Reviewer 2: I'll add a link to https://docs.scylladb.com/stable/operating-scylla/admin.html#enable-specific-experimental-features.
It explains how to enable an experimental feature and will be extended with more details soon.

- The :ref:`aggregate functions <aggregate-functions>`, which are used to aggregate multiple rows of results from a
  ``SELECT`` statement.

In both cases, CQL provides a number of native "hard-coded" functions as well as the ability to create new user-defined
functions.

> .. note:: By default, the use of user-defined functions is disabled by default for security concerns (even when
>    enabled, the execution of user-defined functions is sandboxed and a "rogue" function should not be allowed to do
>    evil, but no sandbox is perfect so using user-defined functions is opt-in). See the ``enable_user_defined_functions``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note:: Although user-defined functions are sandboxed, protecting the system from a "rogue" function, user-defined functions are disabled by default for extra security.
. See the ``enable_user_defined_functions``
```

Reviewer 3: The original version had two "by default", suggesting an alternative wording

takes a 64-bit ``blob`` argument and converts it to a ``bigint`` value. For example, ``bigintAsBlob(3)`` is
``0x0000000000000003`` and ``blobAsBigint(0x0000000000000003)`` is ``3``.

.. _udfs:

User-defined functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

User-defined functions (UDFs) execute user-provided code in ScyllaDB. Supported languages are currently Lua and WebAssembly.

> UDFs are part of the Cassandra schema, and are automatically propagated to all nodes in the cluster.

Reviewer: Maybe "Scylla" instead of "Cassandra"? Or "keyspace" (since, if I remember correctly, UDFs are per keyspace?)

UDFs can be overloaded, so that multiple UDFs with different argument types can have the same function name, for example::

   CREATE FUNCTION sample ( arg int ) ...;
   CREATE FUNCTION sample ( arg text ) ...;

> Arguments for functions can be literals or terms. Prepared statement placeholders can be used, too.

Reviewer: I would add a few words to the beginning of this sentence like, "When calling a user-defined function, arguments can be ...". Because it took me a few seconds to understand that you moved from the function definition (in the previous paragraph) to calling it (in this sentence).

CREATE FUNCTION statement
`````````````````````````

Creating a new user-defined function uses the ``CREATE FUNCTION`` statement. For example::

    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION div(dividend double, divisor double)
      RETURNS NULL ON NULL INPUT
      RETURNS double
      LANGUAGE LUA
      AS 'return dividend/divisor;';

``CREATE FUNCTION`` with the optional ``OR REPLACE`` keywords creates either a function
or replaces an existing one with the same signature. A ``CREATE FUNCTION`` without ``OR REPLACE``
fails if a function with the same signature already exists. If the optional ``IF NOT EXISTS``
keywords are used, the function will only be created only if another function with the same
signature does not exist. ``OR REPLACE`` and ``IF NOT EXISTS`` cannot be used together.

Behavior for null input values must be defined for each function:

> * ``RETURNS NULL ON NULL INPUT`` declares that the function will always return null if any of the input arguments is null.

Reviewer: I would clarify that "the function will always return null **(without being executed)** if any of the input arguments is null."

.. _user-defined-aggregates-functions:

User-defined aggregates (UDAs)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

User-defined aggregates allow the creation of custom aggregate functions. User-defined aggregates can be used in SELECT statement.

> Each aggregate requires an initial state of type ``STYPE`` defined with the ``INITCOND`` value (default value: ``null``). The first argument of the state function must have type STYPE. The remaining arguments of the state function must match the types of the user-defined aggregate arguments. The state function is called once for each row, and the value returned by the state function becomes the new state. After all rows are processed, the optional FINALFUNC is executed with last state value as its argument.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each aggregate requires an initial state of type ``STYPE`` defined with the ``INITCOND`` value (default value: ``null``). The first argument of the state function must have type STYPE. The remaining arguments of the state function must match the types of the user-defined aggregate arguments. The state function is called once for each row, and the value returned by the state function becomes the new state. After all rows are processed, the optional FINALFUNC is executed with the last state value as its argument.
```
